# DoorDashCaseStudy
Maximizing Profitability Through Customer Segmentation in the Food Delivery Industry
-- The more they make, the more they spend --
Ordering food online has become a popular trend in recent years, especially with the pandemic forcing people to stay at home. Because it’s so easy and convenient to order food online, it's no wonder why many have turned to this option. As someone who regularly orders food online, I decided to take on a project to see if I could learn more about myself as a customer and see what insights I could uncover from the data.
The data set I used was taken from iFood, which is similar to DoorDash, but in Brazil. The dataset was slightly modified for the purpose of vetting data analysts and is commonly used as an interview task. The analysis involved several steps,, data visualization, formulas, data aggregation and finding trends and patterns.
Data visualization was crucial in understanding the data and identifying patterns and trends. A common theme began to emerge here, after the scatterplot was made. Lastly, formulas and data aggregation were used to manipulate and summarize the data to gain insights into overall trends and patterns.
Through my analysis, I was able to uncover some key takeaways that could help businesses make data-driven decisions to improve their operations and increase sales. The first takeaway was a customer’s income. By analyzing how much a customer’s income was it showed an obvious correlation, basically, the more they make, the more they spend. Since part of the goal for this was to determine if a certain media campaign was effective, I can make specific recommendations for the media team to target customers with a higher income for better sales.
The second takeaway was what type of customer had the most orders. My analysis revealed trends for families that have children at home against those that do not. The pattern that revealed itself showed that the customers that spend the most do not have kids in the home and the revenue went down as there were more children in the home.
Overall, this was a great project that I had a lot of fun doing and if you are interested in learning more about data analysis, trend forecasting, and common trends in financial data, feel free to reach out to me. Additionally, if you have any data sets that you would like me to analyze, I would be happy to help. Sharing and collaborating with others can lead to valuable insights and help us all make better decisions based on data. As well as, help the data community as a whole.
